Lydia: A very critical piece of advocating
is being able toto
be a good thinker, a good problem solver,
and to be able to come up
with alternative solutions
instead of just saying,
“oh, no, I can't do that then
because this accommodation
or service isn't available.”
[music plays]
Alice: A: know your facts.
Pull up your history, pull up
whatever details you can,
but you need to be able to show that
timeline of why something isn't working.
And sometimes it's actually being
able to literally identify
who the broken link is in a chain,
and knowing the details, knowing
where to go, if you can't afford it
or they can't afford it,
there are ways for things to be done
that are cost effective.
There are entities
that give that kind of advice, naturally.
You just need to know how to channel them
to it. But you've got to be able to do it
without necessarily
being outrageously hostile.
Although I have done that too.
[laughing]
Because sometimes
it's just a word game for them.
But your words are my life.
You know, when you downplay
my access in an emergency room,
that could be the difference
between a life outcome
for me going there or not.
If I'm going to a doctor
and they’re
totally disavowing the fact that I know
my body and I know what I feel,
they're missing a diagnosis
that might be evident to somebody else.
I know that because I've done that
and switched doctors
and found out that I was right.
So you have to be able
to have your facts ready,
have your arguments ready,
and if you can't argue your case, well,
grab a few people that you know
that can argue well for you.
Lydia: I have had many,
many instances in my life
where one thing didn't work
and I had to be willing
and able to come up
with a backup solution.
And I would also say that you can't depend
on the other person to do that
because more times than not
someone that you may be advocating to
is not going to be familiar
with DeafBlindness.
And so you should be aware of
options that you have and be
prepared to come to the table
with alternative solutions.
So I would just say that that is
a really important thing to consider
as you're advocating and telling people
what you need from them.
Rocky: I think oftentimes, you know,
we will teach
people who want to become advocates,
when we're training them, we'll say,
you know, “don't be
confrontational,
be assertive, don't be confrontational.”
You can be assertive.
And I wholeheartedly agree that you should
be assertive over being confrontational.
However, the best advocates
are not afraid of conflict.
Sometimes conflict is just necessary.
Back in the 1980s, for example,
we had a couple of people who are blind
who were arrested because
they refused to leave their seats
in the emergency exit row
of airplanes because, you know,
sighted people were allowed to sit
in those areas, but they weren't.
Rosanna: Advocacy really is
summed up in persistence.
You have to be persistent, be out there.
Your actions will speak louder
than words in many, many cases.
The most important thing
that you can do for yourself
is to develop
your own persona
and develop your skills,
know what your skills are,
and promote those skills
to the best of your ability
so that you can be successful
in the society that we live in today.
Just because you may be DeafBlind,
does not mean
that you can't be successful.
The road to success
is out there for you.
If you look for it and you work at it
and you pursue your dreams.
Rocky: You're going to have to
know what your needs are.
You're going to have to know
what your needs are not, because sometimes
we are offered accommodations
that aren’t necessarily necessary
and that
can also be very demeaning as well.
You know, if you have a backbone,
if you have thick skin,
if you don't allow yourself to be trampled
over, people will have respect for you.
And that's true
if you are DeafBlind or not.
People tend to respect you more
if you're able to speak up
more for yourself.
And as Rosanna said, if you're persistent,
it can earn you a lot of respect
and a lot of trust.
Alice: You have to have the language
to be able to do it.
You have to have a sense of class
and to know when you need to step back
and find another way or another person
to go through to get the same job done.
But giving up, don't do it.
There's got to be a way.
[laughing]
[music plays]
Rocky: I’m more appreciative than I can say that
we're having this roundtable discussion
and this isn't just for us
as people who are DeafBlind.
This is also for the general public.
We've got to get our voices out there.
Rosanna: Allowing us and giving us the opportunity
to be here and share this roundtable
with all of you,
it has been just a
wonderful, wonderful experience.
Thank you so much.
Lydia: I cannot put into words
how much this means to me
that we are going to be able to be heard.
Alice: This is really the real reality,
not the in-between
and the cute little pictures that
you draw that you think is us.
This is us.
And only we can tell you.
It’s just gravy to being able to
put a little exclamation point on
this is our life and we
should have the right to direct it
to some degree that's going to be
meaningful and make us feel proud.
[music ends]